GenoWAP: Post-GWAS Prioritization User Manual

NAME
	GenoWAP -- prioritize GWAS results through Integrated Analysis of Functional Annotation 

SYNOPSIS
	GenoWAP [-h] [-o DESTINATION_PATH] [-b NBINS] [-t THRESHOLD] [-a ANNOTATION_PATH] GWAS_DATA_PATH

DESCRIPTION
	GenoWAP uses GWAS results as input, calculating the probability of a locus being related to the disease given its p-value in GWAS and functional score. The functional score is a measure of functionality of a locus. User could upload customized functional score or by default use posterior score returned by GenoCanyon. 


	positional arguments:
 		GWAS_DATA_PATH       Path to GWAS Data

	optional arguments:
		-h, --help           show help message and exit
		
		-o DESTINATION_PATH  Path to output file, default to result.data
		
		-b NBINS             Number of bins of the histogram, which is used for estimating the distribution of p-values of non-functional loci (defined by THRESHOLD and functional score). A positive integer. If not provided, use cross-validation to choose the best number of bins.
		
		-t THRESHOLD         Threshold for defining functional loci according to the functional score provided, range in (0,1). If functional annotation score of a locus is
		greater than the threshold, define the locus as functional. If not provided, use 0.1.
		
		-a ANNOTATION_PATH   Path to functional annotation file, default to data from GenoCanyon 


DATA FORMAT 
	The following format is for both GWAS_DATA and ANNOTATION:
	A text file with n lines, each line contains chromosome number, coordinate and the GWAS p-value, separated by one tab (i.e. ‘\t’). The file should NOT include a header. The data given is assumed to contain no duplicated entries. If it does, then the duplicated entries will be ignored during computation and removed from output.

GENOCANYON
	For functional annotation, if using GenoCanyon data, please note the following:
	1. A temp.data file containing the GenoCanyon data used in analysis will be generated in current directory and can be reused with -a flag for the same data set.
	2. The default timeout for HTTP request is set to 3 minutes and maximum retry is 3. After 3 tries, user can decide to continue or cancel downloading.
	3. When many users query GenoCanyon database at the same time, all queries will wait in a queue. Therefore downloading may take a relatively long time or even time out before its turn in the queue.

FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
	Q1. What do I do if the EM convergence is out-of-bound?
	A1. If theta[0]>0.5 or theta[1] is not in (0,1), then the input data has a very weak signal and it is advised to use -b1 flag.
	Q2. What do I do if EM algorithm does not converge to within 1e-10 after 20000 iterations?
	A2. If theta values do not converge, you can choose to compute prioritization regardless, or modify the parameters in the source code in the CONSTANT section.
	
